my special coordinator for the midle
East process T venz land will follow
with take to the United Nations to
listen to the Secretary General Antonio
GES speaking now on a meeting to discuss
the situation in Gaza was approved in a
context of widespread death and whale
destruction Unleashed by the conflict in
Gaza and
Israel according to Israeli authorities
more than 1,200 people were killed
including cluding 33 children and
thousands were injured in the abor acts
of Terror by amas on 7
October some 20 250 people were also
abducted including 34
children and there are also numerous
accounts of sexual violence during
attacks that must be vigorously
investigated and
prosecuted gender based violence must be
condemned anytime
anywhere Mr President according to the
de facto
authorities more than 14,000 people have
been killed since the start of the
Israeli military operations in
Gaza tens of thousands of Palestinians
have also been injured with many more
missing in Gaza more than 23ds of those
killed are reported to be children and
women in a matter of weeks a far greater
number of children been killed by
Israeli military operations in
Gaza than the total number of children
killed during any year by any party to a
conflict since I've been Secretary
General is clearly indicated in the
annual reports on children and armed
conflict that I have submitted to the
council over the past few days the
people of the occupied Palestine
territory and Israel have finally seen a
glimmer of hope and Humanity in so much
Darkness it is deeply moving to see
civilians finally having a respite from
the
bombardments families reunited and life
saving Aid
increasing Mr
President resolution 2712 and I quote
demands that all parties comply with
their obligations under international
law including International humanitarian
law notably with regard to the
protection of civilians especially
children it is clear that before the
paws we witness serious
violations beyond the many civilians
killed and wounded that I have spoke of
80% of gaza's people have now been
forced from their
homes the growing popul the growing
population is being pushed to this
growing population is being pushed
towards an Ever smaller area of Southern
Gaza and of course nowhere is safe in
Gaza meanwhile an estimated 45% of all
homs in Gaza have been damaged or
destroyed the nature and scale of death
and destruction are characteristic of
the use of wide area explosive weapons
in populated areas with a significant
impact on
civilians at the same time rocket
attacks on population centers in Israel
by amas and other groups have continued
along with allegations of the use of
human Shields this is also inconsistent
with International humanity and law
obligations Mr President I want to
stress the inviolability of United St
Nations facilities which today are
Sheltering more than 1 million civilians
seeking protection under the UN
flag Huna shares the coordinates of all
its facilities across the Gaza strep
with all parties to the
conflict the agency has verified 104
incidents that have impacted 82 un
installations 24 of which happened since
the adoption of the
resolution a total of 218 internally
displaced people Sheltering in unra
schools have reportedly been killed and
at least 894
injured in addition it is with immense
sadness and pain that I report that
since the beginning of the
hostilities 111 members of our un family
have been killed in
Gaza these represents the largest loss
of Personnel in the history of our
organization let me put it plainly
civilians including United Nations
personnel must be
protected civilian objects including
hospitals must be
protected un facility must not be hit
International humanitarian law must be
respected by all parties to the conflict
at all
times Mr President Security Council
resolution
2712 calls and I quote for Urgent and
extended humanitarian poses and
corridors throughout the Gaza Strip to
enable full Rapid Safe and unhindered
humanitarian access end of
quote I welcome the arrangement
re reached by Israel and Hamas with the
assistance of the governments of Qatar
Egypt and United
States we are working to maximize the
positive potential of this Arrangement
on the humanitarian situation in
Gaza the pause has enabled us to enhance
the delivery of Aid into and across Gaza
for example for the first time since 7
October an inter agency Convoy delivered
food water medical supplies and shelter
items to Northern Gaza especially to
four un shelters in jabalia
Camp prior to this minimal or no
assistant had reached these locations
even as tens of thousands of people had
crowded there for
shelter also for the first time supplies
of cooking gas entered Gaza where people
waited in lines that extended for 2
kilometers in the South where the needs
are dire un agencies and partners having
increased both the amount of Aid
delivery and the number of locations
reached and I express my appreciation to
the government of Egypt for their
contribution in making this assistance
possible but the level of Aid to
Palestinians in Gaza remains completely
inadequate to meet the huge needs of
more than 2 million
people and although the total volume of
fuel allowed into Gaza has also
increased it remains utterly
insufficient to sustain basic
operations civilians in Gaza need a
continuous flow of life-saving
humanitarian Aid and fuel into and
across the area safe and unimpeded
humanitarian access to all those in need
is
critical humanitarian Partners carried
out several medical evacuations from
north to south Gaza including to
transport dozens of premature babies as
well as spinal and dialysis dialysis
patients from shifa and alali Anglican
hospitals several critically ill
patients have also been evacuated for
treatment in
Egypt hospitals across Gaza lack the
basic supplies stuff and fuel to deliver
Primary Health Care at the scale needed
let alone safely treat urgent
cases the medical system has broken down
under the heavy case load acute
shortages and the impact of
hostilities Mr President Security
Council resolution
2712 calls for and I quote the immediate
and unconditional release of all
hostages held by amas and other
groups the arrangements announced on 22
November as so far led to the release of
a five days of 60 hostages 29 women 31
children held by amas and other groups
since 7 October outside the arrangement
during the same period another 21
hostages were
released this is a welcome start but as
I have been saying from day one all
hostages must be released immediately
and
unconditionally until then they must be
treated humanely and the international
Committee of the Red Cross must be
allowed to visit them the arrangement
also saw the release of 180 Palestinian
prisoners and detainees from Israeli
jails
mostly women and
children Mr President Security Council
resolution
2712 and I quote calls on all parties to
refrain from depriving the civilian
population in the Gaza strep of basic
services and humanitarian assistance
indispensable to their survival
consistent with International
humanitarian
law much more is required to begin to
address human needs in
Gaza what water and electricity services
must be fully
restored Food Systems have collapsed and
anger is spreading particularly in the
north sanitary conditions in shelters
are appalling with few toilets and
sewage flooding posing a serious threat
to Public
Health children pregnant women older
people and those with weak weakened
immune systems are at greater
risk Gaza needs an immediate and
sustained increase in humanitarian Aid
including food water fuel blankets
medicines and healthare
supplies it is important to recognize
that the rougher border crossing does
not have enough capacity especially
taking into account the slow pace of
security
procedures that is why we have been
urging the opening of other Crossings
including Kem Shalom and the
streamlining of inspection mechanisms to
allow for the necessary increase of
life- saving
AIDS but humanitarian Aid alone will not
be sufficient we also need the private
sector to bring in critical basic
Commodities to replenish completely
depleted shops in
Gaza Mr
President finally Security Council
resolution
2712 and I quote underscores the
importance of coordination humanitarian
notification and deconfliction
mechanisms to protect all medical and
humanitarian staff Vehicles including
ambulances humanitarian sites and
critical infrastructure including un
facilities a humanitarian notification
system is now in place and is being
constantly reviewed and enhanced
including through plans for additional
civil military experts to support
coordination Mr President I welcome the
adoption of resolution
2712 but its implementation by the
parters matter Partners matters
most in accordance with the resolution I
will revert to the president of the
security Council with a set of options
on effectively monitoring the
implementation of the
resolution I've already established a
working group composed of the Department
of political and peace building Affairs
the department of Peace operations the
office for the coordination of
humanitarian Affairs and the office of
legal Affairs to urgently prepare
proposals in in this
regard so far it is clear that
implementation has been only partial at
best and it was woly
insufficient ultimately we know that the
measure of success will not be the
number of trucks dispatched or the tons
of supplies delivered as important as
these are success will be measured in
lives that are saved suffering that is
ended and open dignity that is
restored the people of Gaza are in the
midst of an epic humanitarian
catastrophe before the eyes of the world
we must not look
away intense negotiations are taking
place to prolong the truth which we
strongly welcome but we believe we need
a true humanitarian
ceasefire and we must ensure the people
of the region finally have an horizon of
Hope by moving in a determined and
irreversible way towards establishing a
two-state solution
on the basis of United Nations
resolutions and international law with
Israel and Palestine living side by side
in peace and
security failure will condemn
Palestinians Israelis the region and the
world to a NeverEnding cycle of death
and destruction and I thank
you